##Setting up git as a first user
Using git bash (Bornne-again shell)

A. Configuration Settings
There are different levels (or configuration file location) applied to the settings which include,
i. System level - Applied to all users on the system
ii. Global level - Applied to all repos of the current user
iii. Local level - Applied only to the current repo 

-> Command pattern
- "git command --option arguments" (this can vary from one cmd to another)

- "git config" - Used to configure settings such as Name, Email, Default Editor,Line Ending

-git config --global user.name (for email, user.email)
- git config --global core.editor "code --wait" - For vs code editor where "--wait" flag tells the terminal window to wait till we close the new vs code instance. 
- "git config --global -e" - To view the configuration on the editor
- End of lines handling - This is vary from one OS to another and it include "\r" for carriage return and "\n" for line feed.

* Window -> "text\r\n" ("git config --global core.autocrlf true")
* mac -> "teext\n" ("git config --global core.autocrlf input") 

- "git config --global --unset-all" - to unset mistakenly typed configuration.

B. initializing a Repository
- Create a project directory and navigate to the folder from the cmd














cd yourDirectory --- cd To Change directory to your directory

git init -- To initialize or create new repository 

git status -- To check the status of the repository (use oftens)

git config user.name -- Shows name

git config --list  --> listng all the configuration

git config --list --show-origin  -> Shows all details for configuration 

git add -- To add an untracked file to the git so any changes made can be tracked (any file added is considered the to be in stagging environment)

git rm --cached filename -- To untrack the file

git rm filename -- To del file from repository and folder completely (one can also delete the file manually from the folder)

rm -rf .git -> To remove repo

git restore --staged "index.html" -- To restore deleted file or non-commited file into repository only.

git restore "index.html" -- to restore del file into the folder.

-> To ignore certain files;
-create a new txt file and name as ".gitignore"
-open and enter the file name e.g "salaries.txt"
-for all txt files, "*.txt"

git add --all (or "-A" or ".")  -- To add the entire files in the directory

git commit -m "Name given or attached to the commit" -- To take a snapshot of the files in the repository at a point in time (that is writing an entry in a history book such as hotel or in the case of call log).  In other word, it can be considered as writing the current state of those files in the history book before making any further changes. 

NB: "Name given or attached to the commit" is a message that goes along with the commit. Something like a name or tag attached to the committed files at that point in time.  



In essence, there are 3 diff environments in git
i. working files or envr - This is where you can make edit to files

ii. stagging - This is when you add the file after changes (something like holding a pen before writing to the history book which is "commit")

NB: git restore "index.html" -- can be used to return back into the working environment

iii. commit - At this stage, the new state is now being recorded

e.g. -edit index.html file
     -type "git status" to see the status of diectory; if any            changes have been made
     -type "git diff" to see difference in the file content
     -then add it again into repo or stagging the file for              commit.
     -you can also unstage the file if you are not ready, that is         reverse back to the working envr using "git reverse --staged        index.html"


git commit -a -m "Name given or attached to the commit" - To add and commit files at the same time

git mv "old name" 'new name' - renaming file  (mv stands for move)

git log -- To review all the commits made. 
-for abbr version, "git log --oneline"
-for more detailed log, "git log -p"

git commit -m "commited name or label to be corrected to" --amend -- To rename a recent commited name

git help log -- To view log documentary

git reset commit-id -- To jump back to previous commit

git rebase -i --root -- To modify what appears in the history book and the order they appear. It shows an editor with some commands that can be used. To exit the editor, just close the editor from vs code

git branch 'name' -- To create new branch for editing without affecting the main branch. In this case, the copy of the current existing branch is made into the new branch

git switch branchNameSwitchingTo  -- To switch to a desired brach created

git switch -c branchNameSwitchingTo  -- To create and switch to the new branch.

git merge -m "merge renameContactButton to master branch" renameContactButton -- To merge the new branch with the main branch

git branch -d renameContactButton -- To delete the new branch

--> Having a conflicting branch. In this case, modification that is made in a branch is already reflecting in the main branching before merging even took place.

git push --all - To push all the files to the github

git fetch  -- To view all the changes made on github from git bash 

git merge  -- To merge changes in remote repository with the local machine's

git pull --all - Combo of fetch and merge


===> Shell navigation

mkdir -- to make a new dir

echo 'My first readme' > README.md -- To create a read me file with a content of "My first readme"

The touch command is a standard command used in UNIX/Linux operating system which is used to create, change and modify timestamps of a file. Basically, there are two different commands to create a file in the Linux system which is as follows:

cat my_file: It is used to create a file with content or get contents of a file.

touch my_file: It is used to create a file without any content. The file created using touch command is empty. This command can be used when the user doesn’t have data to store at the time of file creation.

"more READMEmd"-- To output the content of README.md file

git push origin branchName -- To push branch

pwd -> To print working directory  (linux)
less -> To print the contents of the file 

ls -> To list files

ls -a -> To list hidden files

ls -l -> Listing files in long format

ls -al -> Listing all hidden files in long format



---------------------------CHATGPT SOLUTION ------------------
https://chat.openai.com/share/0f9dfabc-8a71-475e-91ef-cbf8dfc9ed77













